# Reading List

1. [The map that changed the world](https://www.bookdepository.com/Map-That-Changed-World-Author-Historian-Simon-Winchester/9780061767906)
> In 1793, a canal digger named William Smith made a startling discovery. He found that by tracing the placement of fossils, which he uncovered in his excavations, one could follow layers of rocks as they dipped and rose and fell--clear across England and, indeed, clear across the world--making it possible, for the first time ever, to draw a chart of the hidden underside of the earth. Smith spent twenty-two years piecing together the fragments of this unseen universe to create an epochal and remarkably beautiful hand-painted map. But instead of receiving accolades and honors, he ended up in debtors' prison, the victim of plagiarism, and virtually homeless for ten years more. The Map That Changed the World is a very human tale of endurance and achievement, of one man's dedication in the face of ruin. With a keen eye and thoughtful detail, Simon Winchester unfolds the poignant sacrifice behind this world-changing discovery.

1. [Minuteman Missile Booklet](https://muckrock.s3.amazonaws.com/foia_files/2015/11/17/Minuteman_Missile_Booklet_Eastern_National.pdf)

1. [Paul Carter - Smoking Monkeys, Drilling Rigs, Bio Diesel Bikes](https://booko.com.au/9781742379074/Smoking-Monkeys-Drilling-Rigs-Bio-diesel-Bikes-and-Other-Stories-The-complete-Paul-Carter)
> A bumper volume chock full of Paul Carter's hugely entertaining stories of his seriously crazy, sometimes terrifying, always hilarious adventures. Strap yourself in for a wild ride.

1. [Ashlee Vance - Elon Musk: Inventing the Future](https://booko.com.au/9780062301239/Elon-Musk-Inventing-the-Future)
> In the spirit of Steve Jobs and Moneyball, Elon Musk is both an illuminating and authorized look at the extraordinary life of one of Silicon Valley’s most exciting, unpredictable, and ambitious entrepreneurs—a real-life Tony Stark—and a fascinating exploration of the renewal of American invention and its new “makers.” Elon Musk spotlights the technology and vision of Elon Musk, the renowned entrepreneur and innovator behind SpaceX, Tesla, and SolarCity, who sold one of his Internet companies, PayPal, for $1.5 billion. Ashlee Vance captures the full spectacle and arc of the genius’s life and work, from his tumultuous upbringing in South Africa and flight to the United States to his dramatic technical innovations and entrepreneurial pursuits. Vance uses Musk’s story to explore one of the pressing questions of our age: can the nation of inventors and creators who led the modern world for a century still compete in an age of fierce global competition? He argues that Musk—one of the most unusual and striking figures in American business history—is a contemporary, visionary amalgam of legendary inventors and industrialists including Thomas Edison, Henry Ford, Howard Hughes, and Steve Jobs. More than any other entrepreneur today, Musk has dedicated his energies and his own vast fortune to inventing a future that is as rich and far-reaching as the visionaries of the golden age of science-fiction fantasy. Thorough and insightful, Elon Musk brings to life a technology industry that is rapidly and dramatically changing by examining the life of one of its most powerful and influential titans.

1. [Randal Munroe - Thing Explainer](https://www.amazon.co.uk/Thing-Explainer-Randall-Munroe/dp/1473620910)
> It's good to know what the parts of a thing are called, but it's much more interesting to know what they do. Richard Feynman once said that if you can't explain something to a first-year student, you don't really get it. In Thing Explainer, Randall Munroe takes a quantum leap past this: he explains things using only drawings and a vocabulary of just our 1,000 (or the ten hundred) most common words.
> Many of the things we use every day - like our food-heating radio boxes ('microwaves'), our very tall roads ('bridges'), and our computer rooms ('datacentres') - are strange to us. So are the other worlds around our sun (the solar system), the big flat rocks we live on (tectonic plates), and even the stuff inside us (cells). Where do these things come from? How do they work? What do they look like if you open them up? And what would happen if we heated them up, cooled them down, pointed them in a different direction, or pressed this button?

1. [Ryan McIntire - Elon Musk: Renaissance Man](https://booko.com.au/9781508996477/Elon-Musk-Renaissance-Man)
> Optimism, pessimism, f*** that--we're going to make it happen." - Elon Musk 
> Elon Musk is a modern-day fusion of Henry Ford and Isaac Asimov. One of the most successful and renowned entrepreneurs in the world, he’s an unstoppable force in multiple industries. If Musk glances at your business, your product, or your engineers, watch out… he’s about to ruin your day.

1. [Richard Rhodes - Dark Sun](https://booko.com.au/9780684824147/Dark-Sun)
> Here, for the first time, in a brilliant, panoramic portrait by the Pulitzer Prize-winning author of The Making of the Atomic Bomb, is the definitive, often shocking story of the politics and the science behind the development of the hydrogen bomb and the birth of the Cold War. Based on secret files in the United States and the former Soviet Union, this monumental work of history discloses how and why the United States decided to create the bomb that would dominate world politics for more than forty years.

1. [Richard Rhodes - Arsenals of Folly](https://booko.com.au/9780375713941/Arsenals-of-Folly)
> Pulitzer Prize-winning author Richard Rhodes delivers a riveting account of the nuclear arms race and the Cold War. In the Reagan-Gorbachev era, the United States and the Soviet Union came within minutes of nuclear war, until Gorbachev boldly launched a campaign to eliminate nuclear weapons, setting the stage for the 1986 Reykjavik summit and the incredible events that followed. In this thrilling, authoritative narrative, Richard Rhodes draws on personal interviews with both Soviet and U.S. participants and a wealth of new documentation to unravel the compelling, shocking story behind this monumental time in human history its beginnings, its nearly chilling consequences, and its effects on global politics today.

1. [Richard Rhodes - Twilight Of The Bombs](https://booko.com.au/9780307387417/Twilight-Of-The-Bombs)
> The final volume in Richard Rhodes's prizewinning history of nuclear weapons offers the first comprehensive narrative of the challenges faced in the post-Cold War age. The past twenty years have transformed our relationship with nuclear weapons drastically. With extraordinary depth of knowledge and understanding, Richard Rhodes makes clear how the five original nuclear powers--Russia, Great Britain, France, China, and especially the United States--have struggled with new realities. He reveals the real reasons George W. Bush chose to fight a second war in Iraq, assesses the emerging threat of nuclear terrorism, and offers advice on how our complicated relationships with North Korea and South Asia should evolve. Finally, he imagines what a post-nuclear world might look like, as only he can.

1. [Benjamin Grant - Overview: A New Perspective of Earth](https://www.amazon.com/Overview-Perspective-Earth-Benjamin-Grant/dp/039957865X)
> A stunning and unique collection of satellite images of Earth that offer an unexpected look at humanity, derived from the wildly popular Daily Overview Instagram account.

1. [Cathy O'Neil - Wepons of Math Destruction](https://weaponsofmathdestructionbook.com/)
> A former Wall Street quant sounds an alarm on the mathematical models that pervade modern life and threaten to rip apart our social fabric. 
> We live in the age of the algorithm. Increasingly, the decisions that affect our lives—where we go to school, whether we get a car loan, how much we pay for health insurance—are being made not by humans, but by mathematical models. In theory, this should lead to greater fairness: Everyone is judged according to the same rules, and bias is eliminated.
> But as Cathy O’Neil reveals in this urgent and necessary book, the opposite is true. The models being used today are opaque, unregulated, and uncontestable, even when they’re wrong. Most troubling, they reinforce discrimination: If a poor student can’t get a loan because a lending model deems him too risky (by virtue of his zip code), he’s then cut off from the kind of education that could pull him out of poverty, and a vicious spiral ensues. Models are propping up the lucky and punishing the downtrodden, creating a “toxic cocktail for democracy.” Welcome to the dark side of Big Data.

1. [Hugh Blair-Smith - Left Brains for the Right Stuff](https://booko.com.au/9780996434539/Left-Brains-for-the-Right-StuffComputers-Space-and-History)
> What made the Space Race possible? What made it necessary? How close a race was it? And what did it achieve? The answers are connected in surprising ways. Left Brains for the Right Stuff briefly summarizes the history of three technologies-rockets, navigation, and computers-and recounts how they were woven into the rise and rivalry of superpowers in the twentieth century. President John F. Kennedy inherited a small Space Race and transformed it into a Moon Race by creating the Apollo program (..". achieving the goal, before this decade is out, of landing a man on the moon ..."). To make it an "offer" the Soviet Union couldn't refuse, he added, "We choose to go to the moon ... not because it is] easy, but because it is] hard." Apollo won the Moon Race and, combined with the Space Shuttle, won the Space Race, which did much to win the Cold War and preserve the momentum of American leadership that had been created in World War II. Many big companies worked on those programs, and so did a small academic research laboratory. At Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), the Instrumentation Laboratory ("the Lab") was the creation of one man, Charles Stark "Doc" Draper, who invented inertial navigation. Author Hugh Blair-Smith was a staff engineer at the Lab from 1959 through 1981. Trained as an electronic engineer and computer scientist, his two-pronged expertise contributed to both the hardware of spacecraft computers and the programming that had to make the most of their limite

1. [Neal Stephenson - Reamde]()
> An epic thriller from the unique imagination of one of today's most inventive writers: a wealthy tech entrepreneur is caught in the crossfire of his own online fantasy war game, as Chinese hackers unleash a contagious virus - Reamde...

1. [Kate Thompson - Zero Bugs and Program Faster](https://www.amazon.com/dp/0996193308)
> The world's top developers are making over $500,000 a year while the average is around $100,000 a year. Why? Because the top developers can develop 10x faster and cleaner than 99% of the others out there. Kate Thompson can teach you how to write code faster and get cleaner. The author spent two years researching every bug avoidance technique she could find.This book teaches the principles of how to avoid bugs.

1. [Jacquie McNish - Losing the Signal: The Untold Story Behind the Extraordinary Rise and Spectacular Fall of Blackberry](https://booko.com.au/9781250060174/Losing-the-Signal-The-Untold-Story-Behind-the-Extraordinary-Rise-and-Spectacular-Fall-of-Blackberry)
> Short-listed for the 2015 Financial Times and McKinsey Business Book of the Year A Wall Street Journal Best Business Book of 2015 A Best Business Book of the Year, Forbes Magazine A Times of London Book of the Week Best Narrative Business Book of 2015 by Strategy+Business In 2009, BlackBerry controlled half of the smartphone market. Today that number is less than one percent. What went so wrong? Losing the Signal is a riveting story of a company that toppled global giants before succumbing to the ruthlessly competitive forces of Silicon Valley. This is not a conventional tale of modern business failure by fraud and greed. The rise and fall of BlackBerry reveals the dangerous speed at which innovators race along the information superhighway. With unprecedented access to key players, senior executives, directors and competitors, Losing the Signal unveils the remarkable rise of a company that started above a bagel store in Ontario. At the heart of the story is an unlikely partnership between a visionary engineer, Mike Lazaridis, and an abrasive Harvard Business school grad, Jim Balsillie. Together, they engineered a pioneering pocket email device that became the tool of choice for presidents and CEOs. The partnership enjoyed only a brief moment on top of the world, however. At the very moment BlackBerry was ranked the world's fastest growing company internal feuds and chaotic growth crippled the company as it faced its gravest test: Apple and Google's entry in to mobile phones.

1. [Richard H. Graham - Flying the SR-71 Blackbird: In the Cockpit on a Secret Operational Mission](https://www.amazon.com/Flying-SR-71-Blackbird-Cockpit-Operational/dp/0760332398)
> The Lockheed SR-71, unofficially known as the Blackbird, was an advanced, long-range, Mach 3 strategic reconnaissance aircraft developed by Lockheed Skunk Works. The aircraft flew so fast and high that not one was ever shot down, even by a missile. SR-71 pilot and instructor Colonel Richard Graham offers a rare cockpit perspective on how regular Air Force pilots and navigators transformed themselves into SR-71 Blackbird crews, turning their unique aviation talents to account in an unprecedented way.

1. [Ben R. Rich - Skunk Works: A Personal Memoir of My Years at Lockheed](https://www.amazon.com/Skunk-Works-Personal-Memoir-Lockheed/dp/0316743003)
> From the development of the U-2 to the Stealth fighter, the never-before-told story behind America's high-stakes quest to dominate the skies Skunk Works is the true story of America's most secret and successful aerospace operation. As recounted by Ben Rich, the operation's brilliant boss for nearly two decades, the chronicle of Lockheed's legendary Skunk Works is a drama of cold war confrontations and Gulf War air combat, of extraordinary feats of engineering and human achievement against fantastic odds. Here are up-close portraits of the maverick band of scientists and engineers who made the Skunk Works so renowned. Filled with telling personal anecdotes and high adventure, with narratives from the CIA and from Air Force pilots who flew the many classified, risky missions, this book is a riveting portrait of the most spectacular aviation triumphs of the twentieth century.

1. [Geoff Manaugh - A Burglar's Guide to the City](https://www.amazon.com/dp/0374117268)
> At the core of A Burglar's Guide to the City is an unexpected and thrilling insight: how any building transforms when seen through the eyes of someone hoping to break into it. Studying architecture the way a burglar would, Geoff Manaugh takes readers through walls, down elevator shafts, into panic rooms, up to the buried vaults of banks, and out across the rooftops of an unsuspecting city.
> With the help of FBI Special Agents, reformed bank robbers, private security consultants, the L.A.P.D. Air Support Division, and architects past and present, the book dissects the built environment from both sides of the law. Whether picking padlocks or climbing the walls of high-rise apartments, finding gaps in a museum's surveillance routine or discussing home invasions in ancient Rome, A Burglar's Guide to the City has the tools, the tales, and the x-ray vision you need to see architecture as nothing more than an obstacle that can be outwitted and undercut.

1. [Frank O'Brien - The Apollo Guidance Computer : Architecture and Operation](https://www.bookdepository.com/Apollo-Guidance-Computer-Frank-OBrien/9781441908766)
> The technological marvel that facilitated the Apollo missions to the Moon was the on-board computer. In the 1960s most computers filled an entire room, but the spacecraft's computer was required to be compact and low power. Although people today find it difficult to accept that it was possible to control a spacecraft using such a `primitive' computer, it nevertheless had capabilities that are advanced even by today's standards. This is the first book to fully describe the Apollo guidance computer's architecture, instruction format and programs used by the astronauts. As a comprehensive account, it will span the disciplines of computer science, electrical and aerospace engineering. However, it will also be accessible to the `space enthusiast'. In short, the intention is for this to be the definitive account of the Apollo guidance computer. Frank O'Brien's interest in the Apollo program began as a serious amateur historian. About 12 years ago, he began performing research and writing essays for the Apollo Lunar Surface Journal, and the Apollo Flight Journal. Much of this work centered on his primary interests, the Apollo Guidance Computer (...show more

1. [Scott Pape - The Barefoot Investor: The Only Money Guide You'll Ever Need](https://www.bookdepository.com/Barefoot-Investor-Scott-Pape/9780730324218)
> This is the only money guide you'll ever need That's a bold claim, given there are already thousands of finance books on the shelves. So what makes this one different? Well, you won't be overwhelmed with a bunch of 'tips' ... or a strict budget (that you won't follow). You'll get a step-by-step formula: open this account, then do this; call this person, and say this; invest money here, and not there. All with a glass of wine in your hand. This book will show you how to create an entire financial plan that is so simple you can sketch it on the back of a serviette ... and you'll be able to manage your money in 10 minutes a week. You'll also get the skinny on: Saving up a six-figure house deposit in 20 months Doubling your income using the 'Trapeze Strategy' Saving $78,173 on your mortgage and wiping out 7 years of payments Finding a financial advisor who won't rip you off Handing your kids (or grandkids) a $140,000 cheque on their 21st birthday Why you don't need $1 million to retire ... with the 'Donald Bradman Retirement Strategy' Sound too good to be true? It's not. This book is full of stories from everyday Aussies Â single people, young fam...show more

1. [Hadley Wickham - ggplot2: Elegant Graphics for Data Analysis](https://www.bookdepository.com/ggplot2-Hadley-Wickham/9783319242750)
> This new edition to the classic book by ggplot2 creator Hadley Wickham highlights compatibility with knitr and RStudio. ggplot2 is a data visualization package for R that helps users create data graphics, including those that are multi-layered, with ease. With ggplot2, it's easy to: produce handsome, publication-quality plots with automatic legends created from the plot specificationsuperimpose multiple layers (points, lines, maps, tiles, box plots) from different data sources with automatically adjusted common scalesadd customizable smoothers that use powerful modeling capabilities of R, such as loess, linear models, generalized additive models, and robust regressionsave any ggplot2 plot (or part thereof) for later modification or reusecreate custom themes that capture in-house or journal style requirements and that can easily be applied to multiple plotsapproach a graph from a visual perspective, thinking about how each component of the data is represented on the final plot This book will be useful to everyone who has struggled with displaying data in an informative and attractive way. Some basic knowledge of...show more
